I know that at some stage, probably
a big majority of the people watching
this have had a go at doing this and
it's gone horribly wrong, right?
They've met resistance, okay?
They've come up against problems.
People do tend to be resistant to change.
And so
if you are suggesting changing things,
people will come up with all kinds
of reasons why it can't be done.
So I thought I'd knock off a few
of the most common ones, and
how I tend to respond to those, I may or
may not work in your organization,
I can't make promises,
it depends on the people,
it depends on the circumstances but I'll
give you a sense of how I deal with it.
So one of the big ones,
have you ever had this one?
So, we can't get access to our audience,
have you ever had that one?
Or we'd love to, we'd love to do user
research and testing, but it's really
hard to our customers, our clients
are very busy or whatever else, right?
That's quite a common
scenario that comes up.
So first thing I would say is
you can do user research just
using existing assets a lot of the time,
right?
So there will be data, there will be
anecdotes, there will be online comments.
There'll be feedback that
the audience has given over time.
So, often one of the excuses is, not that
we can't get access to the audience, but
we talk to them so much we can't ask
them yet again about another thing.
All right, well give me everything you've
ever talked about with them before, and
I'll have a look through it and
see what we can learn, right?
So that's always my starting
point with this one.
There may be gaps,
there may be information that you
can't get out of that, right?
It doesn't answer your questions, so
the next thing I tend to do
is use surrogates, right?
By that I mean people who are engaged
with your target audience.
So the best one, and
I'm doing this right now,
I'm working with a charity to
increase their fundraising values.
They have fundraisers and a lot of people
don't get around to actually, they say,
I want a fundraiser and
they never actually do it.
And so we're trying to work out why
that is and how we can improve it.
But I'm meeting resistance in terms of
speaking to those fundraisers because
they're sending them so
many texts, so many messages,
they don't wanna interrupt them again.
So what I've done is I sat down
with the support staff, the people
that are answering their queries and and
talking to them in the chat rooms and
people like that and saying,
well, what are the issues, right?
Well, one of the issues turns out that
you're sending them too many texts and
too many emails and too many messages and
you're annoying them.
So you can talk to people who've got
a close working relationship with
the end users.
Cuz a lot of the time organizational
decisions being made by people that never
spend any time with users, right?
So bringing the voices of those who do
into the equation can work very well.
Work with colleagues is what I've
just described, that idea of working
with people who are in a close
working relationship with users.
The surrogates one is actually more
the people who are very similar to
your target audience.
So let me give you
an example with that one.
Let's imagine you wanna do
some usability testing, right?
Now that doesn't mean in that situation
you need your exact target audience.
You probably don't, right?
The truth is that, I don't know,
you and me, for example, okay?
We're different generations,
we come from different countries,
we're different genders,
we're very different people,
yet doing usability testing, we probably
would have very similar results.
Because usability just cannot use it,
right?
We've got similar level of
computer knowledge, for example.
And we're confident, maybe my vision is
causing me more of a problem than it is
you so that might be a slight difference
that would affect usability testing.
But generally speaking,
you could swap people out quite
easily with usability testing.
While if it was design taste or
tone of voice,
then we would be very different over that,
cuz that's a more subjective thing and
is more based on demographics and
that kind of stuff.
So your three options are look at
existing data, use surrogates, use,
wear appropriate where you can get
away with using someone who isn't
your specific target audience and
work with the colleagues that are actually
interacting with people on a daily basis.
So that's one big
objection that people have.
Another big objection is, well,
you haven't spoken to enough people,
or we don't have access to enough people.
And so you'll maybe do a little bit
of testing and then people go, well,
you only tested with three people, right?
Acknowledge that speaking to
more people would be better, and
then you would happily do that if you were
given the time and budget to do that.
However, emphasize that,
even with a small number of people is
better than making guesses and assumptions
cuz that's the alternative, right?
So really that this is
a false premise here,
that we haven't spoken to enough people.
One person is better than
making stuff up yourself.
But this is actually a really useful
one for actually demonstrating that,
well, yeah, I'd love to test
with more people, let's do it.
It's a good one to turn around.
Another common objection that you'll meet
is where your results might be biased,
all right?
No, no, yes,
I know you did a little bit of testing but
the results are gonna be biased.
And so they dismiss it because
they don't wanna face it.
So first of all,
you can minimize the bias.
You can by being very careful
about the questions that
you ask in a survey or
in your user testing.
And in fact, I often find AI is
really good for this, right?
These days, ChatGPT,
if you take your question and you copy and
paste it into ChatGPT or
your large language Model of choice.
Other services are available.
If you take your question,
pop it into ChatGPT and say,
make this as clear, concise,
and unbiased as possible.
It helps you remove bias very quickly and
easily, right?
So that's a great way
of getting around that.
But you can also, even if your results
are biased, that's kind of okay.
It's okay as long as you're
aware of those biases.
So you've got to be with
any usability testing,
especially if you're doing lean,
quick, and dirty usability testing,
anything you do is gonna be a bit rubbish,
right?
It's gonna have its limitations.
And so as long as you're aware of
those limitations, that's fine, okay?
And then if people believe
the results are biased by all means,
let's do some more in-depth research.
Again, you're upselling, the idea of
let's do more and let's do it better.
So a lot of these kinds of
objections you get are actually
opportunities to kinda push for
something a bit more and a bit better.
But this is the biggie,
this is the one you'll get the most.
It'll be too disruptive and
take too long, right?
Get this all the time,
we don't have time to do it or
we don't have the budget to do it.
We've got to get this done
by the end of the week etc..
Any excuse just to keep things moving
forward, especially project managers
are the people that are really bad at this
because they just wanna get it delivered,
and I can understand that
they're under enormous pressure.
So, how do I get round this little one?
Well, my best tip is, just do it.
Just don't tell anyone you're doing it,
right?
Don't give people
the opportunity to say no.
Just do it as part of
your working practices.
As the way you operate, right?
So was it Grace Hooper,
I think was the firs
female admiral in the US Navy and
amazing woman.
She came from a development
computer science background and
credible woman and
she said a very famous, quote,
which you'll all know is easier to ask for
forgiveness than permission, right?
That's what you need
the usability testing.
And when I show you the kind of
usability testing I'm proposing,
you can easily slip that
under the radar without ever
telling anybody you're doing it, right?
Don't ask, right?
Avoid asking for anything,
I know it's just said just do it,
which sounds like don't ask.
But what I'm talking about here
is don't ask for anything.
Don't ask for any money,
don't ask for any extra time.
Just do the research without any
additional resources, all right?
Don't ask anybody else to change the way
they work at least not to begin with.
Because that's where
you'll meet resistance.
And so
the extension of that is no extra time.
Keep your research from impacting
the timeline of the project,
build around the timeline that
already exists to begin with.
Now, I'm very aware that I'm making
a lot of, you're going, well,
how can I do that, right?
But that's what we're gonna come on to.
This is why this is the kind
of foundational principles.
I'm hoping I can show you opportunities to
start doing some of these things within
these constraints.